# Document

A case will contain many more documents than are uploaded to the Clearinghouse. We generally add documents that provide additional information that help someone understand what is going on in the case, such as complaints, opinions, orders, and settlement agreements. We also add documents that we find particularly interesting, such as letters between lawyers about how to litigate the case. Particularly interesting documents that apply more broadly, such as memoranda explaining a complex litigation strategy involving multiple cases, are uploaded as resources (see [Resource](https://api.clearinghouse.net/api-reference/objects/resource)).

## Properties

Name | Type | Description | Notes
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**var_date** | **str** | The document&#39;s date in the format \&quot;YYYY-MM-DD\&quot;. This is usually when the document was filed in court, signed, or sent. | [optional] 
**date_is_estimate** | **bool** | If true, it indicates that date information is an estimate. | [optional] 
**date_not_available** | **bool** | If true, it indicates that we don&#39;t have any date information for a document. | [optional] 
**description** | **str** | A brief description of the document. We usually use this for documents that don&#39;t have formal titles (like letters). | [optional] 
**document_source** | **str** | Where we originally sourced a document. There are lots of options, but some of the most common are: ***PACER*** - The federal court system&#39;s online document filing website ***RECAP*** - A website run by a non-profit organization which scrapes documents from PACER and makes them availalble for free ***Westlaw, LexisNexis*** - A commercial database of legal materials used by many lawyers ***U.S. Department of Justice*** - The federal agency responsible for enforcing many civil rights laws ***Papers of (various individuals)*** - Personal papers of an attorney, judge, or other civil rights figure that have been shared with the Clearinghouse  | [optional] 
**document_type** | **str** | What kind of thing the document is. We have a good number of options, some of which are more common than others. Most of the document types are specific kinds of court filings (e.g. \&quot;Complaint\&quot;), while others are more general (e.g. \&quot;Correspondence\&quot;). ***Complaint*** - A document that contains the facts underlying the lawsuit, the plaintiff&#39;s legal claims, and what the plaintiff would like the court to do. A complaint often starts a case. ***Opinion/Order*** - A document where a judge or court make a decision in a case and (sometimes) explain their reasoning. These can be very short or very long, depending on the amount of legal reasoning. ***Pleading/Motion/Brief*** - This is a catch-all category for documents filed by lawyers in court. ***Monitor/Expert/Receiver Report*** - Monitors, experts, and receivers are all people with special expertise (e.g. doctors) who give the court their professional opinion. Often they create written reports on their findings. ***Settlement*** - An agreement between the parties of the lawsuit to end the case. It might include a promise to pay money or to change actions. ***Docket*** - A court&#39;s record of everything that happened in a case, usually organized by date. ***Correspondence*** - A letter NOT filed in court. ***Declaration/Affidavit*** - A legal document where somebody swears that facts are true, under penalty of perjury. ***Discovery/FOIA Material*** - Discovery: the evidence in a case, turned over as part of a lawsuit. FOIA Material: government documents obtained through a Freedom of Information Act (or similar) request. ***FOIA Request*** - A request for government documents under the Freedom of Information Act. ***Internal Memorandum*** - A memorandum or correspondence inside of an organization. ***Legislative Report*** - A report by a legislature. ***Magistrate Report/Recommendation*** - In the federal court system, magistrates are lower level judges who don&#39;t have the full powers of a federal judge. Sometimes they will resolve a legal question by writing a report and recommendation to a full federal judge, who can approve or reject it. These usually look a lot like opinions. ***Statute/Ordinance/Regulation*** - A rule or law created by a legislature or state or federal agency. ***Executive Order*** - A rule or order created by the president, a governor, or someone else in charge of a governmental entity, like a city or county. ***Transcripts*** - A verbatim written record of a hearing or trial in court. These are in dialog format, like a screenplay. ***Justification Memo*** - An internal memo by a DOJ attorney explaining why an entity should be investigated. This document type is just for U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division cases. ***Notice Letter*** - A public letter from the DOJ to an entity letting them know they are the subject of an investigation. This document type is just for U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division cases. ***Findings Memo*** - A public memo from the DOJ explaining the findings of an investigation. This document type is just for U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division cases.  | [optional] 
**order_type** | **str** | This field indicates whether a document is a court order and, if so, what kind of court order. In terms of kinds of orders, we&#39;re basically asking two questions: Is the order a decree? We define decree to mean that the court is telling somebody outside of the lawsuit to do something. Is the order on consent (the parties agreed to it) or was it litigated (the parties didn&#39;t agree and the court had to decide)? Order type only matters for documents created by judges and settlements approved by judges. That means that for most document types, this value is null. ***null*** - The document is not a court order. ***Non-Decree*** - A court order that does not tell somebody outside the lawsuit to do something. ***Litigated Decree*** - A court order that tells somebody outside the lawsuit to do something, where the parties didn&#39;t agree on the outcome. ***Consent Decree*** - A court order that tells somebody outside the lawsuit to do something, where the parties agreed on the outcome.  | [optional] 
**citation_paren** | **str** | Information following a citation giving the reader extra information about its context. We rarely use them, so citation_paren is often null. Here are other options: ***aff&#39;d by an equally divided court*** - The opinion was affirmed by the the U.S. Supreme Court through a tie vote without an opinion on the substance of the case. ***aff&#39;d per curiam*** - The opinion was affirmed by a per curiam opinion, where the opinion wasn&#39;t authored by an individual judge. ***amicus motion denied*** - A motion to file an amicus brief was denied. An amicus curiae, Latin for \&quot;friend of the court,\&quot; is a person or entity who is not a party to the case but asks the court for permission to advise the court on some aspect of the case. ***amicus motion granted*** - A motion to file an amicus brief was granted. An amicus curiae, Latin for \&quot;friend of the court,\&quot; is a person or entity who is not a party to the case but asks the court for permission to advise the court on some aspect of the case. ***appeal dismissed*** - The appeal of the decision was dismissed. ***cert. denied*** - A higher court (typically the U.S. Supreme Court) rejected a request to review the lower court decision, known as a petition for writ of certiorari. ***cert. dismissed*** - A higher court (typically the U.S. Supreme Court) granted a request to review the lower court decision (a petition for writ of certiorari) but then later decided to reverse its decision – dismissing the grant of certiorari. ***cert. granted*** - A higher court (typically the U.S. Supreme Court) granted a request to review the lower court decision, known as a petition for writ of certiorari. ***consolidation denied*** - A request to consolidate similar cases was denied. ***counsel appointment request granted*** - A request to appoint counsel was granted. ***en banc*** - The case was heard by all of the judges of a particular court (as opposed to a panel with only some of the judges). En banc is French for \&quot;on the bench.\&quot; ***inviting Solicitor General to file brief*** - The U.S. Supreme Court invited the solicitor general to file a brief expressing the views of the U.S. in a case where a party petitioned for certiorari – a procedure known as \&quot;Call for the Views of the Solicitor General\&quot; (CVSG). ***joint appendix -- granting OR denying motion*** - Relevant legal documents submitted to support a petition for writ of certiorari. ***mandamus denied*** - The court denied a writ of mandamus, which is a court order (usually from an appellate court) requiring a government official or entity to do their public duty (that they have neglected or refused to do). ***merits opinion*** - The opinion analyzes the substantive law of the case, rather than addressing only procedural matters. ***motion to dismiss cert. denied*** - A higher court (typically the U.S. Supreme Court) denied a request to reverse a previously granted a writ of certiorari. (See \&quot;cert. dismissed\&quot; above.) ***opinion respecting the denial of cert.*** - An opinion denying a writ of certiorari where the justice felt so strongly that they chose to write a separate opinion. ***oral argument motion granted OR denied*** - An oral argument motion was granted or denied. Oral argument is when lawyers speak in front of the judge(s), with the judge(s) interrupting to ask questions. ***prob. juris. decision deferred*** - When appealing a decision, the question of whether the higher court (typically the U.S. Supreme Court) has probable jurisdiction over the appeal has been postponed to the hearing on the merits. ***prob. juris. noted*** - When appealing a decision, the higher court (typically the U.S. Supreme Court) has noted that it has probable jurisdiction over the appeal. ***reh&#39;g denied*** - A request for a rehearing of the case was denied. ***reh&#39;g granted*** - A request for a rehearing of the case was granted. ***requesting briefing*** - The court requested that the parties submit written arguments (\&quot;briefs\&quot;) to the court. This practice is known as \&quot;briefing.\&quot; ***rev&#39;d per curiam*** - The opinion was reversed by a per curiam opinion, where the opinion wasn&#39;t authored by an individual judge. ***stay denied*** - A request for a pause (\&quot;stay\&quot;) of enforcement of the judgment was denied. ***stay granted*** - A request for a pause (\&quot;stay\&quot;) of enforcement of the judgment was granted. ***stay vacated*** - The court set aside (\&quot;vacated\&quot;) a pause (\&quot;stay\&quot;) of enforcement of the judgment. ***stay vacatur denied*** - A request to remove a stay of enforcement of the judgment was denied. (\&quot;Vacatur\&quot; is Latin for \&quot;it is vacated.\&quot;) ***summarily affirmed (without opinion)*** - The opinion was affirmed by a higher court without the higher court hearing further argument (and without issuing an opinion). ***summarily reversed (without opinion)*** - The opinion was reversed by a higher court without the higher court hearing further argument (and without issuing an opinion). ***table*** - The decision was a very short order summarily affirming a lower court opinion published in a table in a reporter. Federal courts of appeals no longer do this. ***vacated and remanded*** - On appeal, a higher court set aside (\&quot;vacated\&quot;) the decision and asked the lower court to redo their decision in light of some guidance provided by the higher court (\&quot;remanded\&quot; the decision). ***vacated as moot*** - The decision was set aside because the dispute had been resolved in some other way. When a dispute is no longer \&quot;live,\&quot; it becomes \&quot;moot.\&quot;  | [optional] 
**cite_1_page** | **int** | The page number for Citation 1. If there is no citation for Citation 1, this field is null.  | [optional] 
**cite_1_reporter** | **str** | The reporter for Citation 1. If there is no citation for Citation 1, this field is null. Citation 1 is for our preferred reporters, which include several types of reporters: ***U.S. Reports*** - Reporter for the U.S. Supreme Court ***Federal Reporter*** - Reporter for the federal circuit courts ***Federal Supplement*** - Reporter for the federal district courts, U.S. Court of International Trade, U.S. Court of Federal Claims, and Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ***Federal Appendix*** - Reporter for circuit opinions that are \&quot;unpublished\&quot; ***Regional Reporters*** - West&#39;s reporters for state courts ***State Court Reporters*** - Individual states&#39; reporters for their courts  | [optional] 
**cite_1_vol** | **int** | The volume number for Citation 1. If there is no citation for Citation 1, this field is null.  | [optional] 
**cite_2_page** | **int** | The page number for Citation 2. If there is no citation for Citation 2, this field is null.  | [optional] 
**cite_2_reporter** | **str** | The reporter for Citation 2. If there is no citation for Citation 2, this field is null. These are not the most preferred reporters, but many lawyers prefer them to those in Citation 3 (see [cite_3_reporter](https://api.clearinghouse.net/api-reference/objects/document/citations#cite_3_reporter)). There are only two options for Citation 2:   ***S.Ct.*** - Supreme Court Reporter. Typically publishes recent opinions faster than the U.S. Reports.   ***WL*** - Westlaw. A commercial electronic database that contains many judicial opinions, among other things.  | [optional] 
**cite_2_vol** | **int** | The volume number for Citation 2. For Westlaw citations, the volume is the year of the opinion. If there is no citation for Citation 2, this field is null. | [optional] 
**cite_3_page** | **int** | The page number for Citation 3. If there is no citation for Citation 3, this field is null.  | [optional] 
**cite_3_reporter** | **str** | The reporter for Citation 3. If there is no citation for Citation 3, this field is null. These are the reporters we prefer not to use (and don&#39;t often collect). There are two types of reporters for Citation 3: ***U.S. Supreme Court Reports, Lawyers&#39; Edition*** - Reporter for the U.S. Supreme Court ***Lexis*** - LexisNexis. A commercial electronic database that contains many judicial opinions, among other things.  | [optional] 
**cite_3_vol** | **int** | The volume number for Citation 3. For Lexis citations, the volume is the year of the opinion. If there is no citation for Citation 3, this field is null.  | [optional] 
**citation_status** | **str** | The status of the citation information. There are a several possible values for this field: ***null*** - This field has not been set yet. This is likely because the document&#39;s metadata is not yet complete. ***Don&#39;t know*** - We don&#39;t know if this document has a citation. ***No citation available*** - There is no citation for this document, but it is an opinion or order (i.e. a type of document that could have a citation. ***Not applicable*** - The document is not the type of document that can have a citation (i.e. it is not an opinion or order). ***Not checked yet*** - We have not checked for a citation yet. ***Official citation found/coded*** - We found an official citation (i.e. not Westlaw or Lexis) and have updated the appropriate fields. ***S.Ct. - check later for U.S.*** - The document has a citation for the Supreme Court Reporter (S. Ct.) but was too recent to have a citation for the U.S. Reports (U.S.) when we last checked. ***WL/LEXIS cite: Check later for official citation*** - The document has a Westlaw or Lexis citation but was too recent to have an official citation when we last checked. ***WL/LEXIS only: No official citation available*** - The document has a Westlaw or Lexis citation but does not have an official citation.  | [optional] 
**court** | **str** | The court where the document was filed. The options are the same as the court field for cases -- see [court](https://api.clearinghouse.net/api-reference/objects/case/case-details#court). | [optional] 
**no_title** | **bool** | If true, it indicates that the document doesn&#39;t have a title. | [optional] 
**party_types** | **List[str]** | The types of parties or entities that filed or created a document. More than one can be selected. The options are: ***Plaintiff*** - The person or entity who files a lawsuit. ***Administrative tribunal*** - A government office or agency, other than a court, that resolves disputes. ***Amicus Curiae*** - Latin for \&quot;friend of the court.\&quot; Someone who isn&#39;t a part of a lawsuit, but gives the judge advice about how to decide a case. ***Mediator*** - A person (other than the judge) who tries to help the parties to a lawsuit negotiate a compromise agreement. ***Defendant*** - The person or entity who a lawsuit is filed against ***Court*** - The judge. ***Defendant-Intervenor*** - A person or entity who joins a case filed by someone else as a defendant. ***Expert*** - A person with special expertise (like a doctor or scientist) who is hired by the parties or the court to give their opinion in a lawsuit. ***Monitor/Master*** - A person hired by the court to determine whether an institution or entity is complying with the terms of a settlement or court order. ***Plaintiff-Intervenor*** - A person or entity who joins a case filed by someone else as a plaintiff. ***Receiver*** - A person who is placed in control of an institution or entity by a court.  | [optional] 
**per_curium** | **bool** | If the opinion was issued per curiam, which is Latin for \&quot;for the court.\&quot; This means that the opinion wasn&#39;t authored by an individual judge. | [optional] 
**is_core_document** | **bool** | Whether the document is a central document to the case. By default, all documents are core documents; we use this only to tidy up cases with lots of documents. On the Clearinghouse site, this controls whether the document is immediately visible. If is_core_document is false, then a user must uncheck the \&quot;show only core documents\&quot; box to see the document on the Clearinghouse site. | [optional] 
**file** | **str** | URL to the PDF file for the document. | [optional] 
**title** | **str** | The name or title of a document, usually as it appears in the document itself. Most documents filed in court have formal names/titles (e.g. \&quot;Plaintiff&#39;s Motion for Summary Judgment\&quot;). For documents that don&#39;t, like letters, we use [description](https://api.clearinghouse.net/api-reference/objects/document/document-details#description). | [optional] 
**public_note** | **str** | This field allows us to add publicly visible text to a document entry. | [optional] 
**document_type_other** | **str** | This field allows users to input a new, single use document type, if a document doesn&#39;t fit into any of the categories above. We don&#39;t use it very often. | [optional] 
**external_url** | **str** | A link to the document at another place on the Internet. | [optional] 
**ecf_number** | **str** | In federal court, documents filed in a case are assigned ECF numbers in the order they&#39;re filed. In the Clearinghouse, we use these numbers to line up documents with docket entries. Sometimes one document is attached to another document in PACER/RECAP. The attached document will have a dash (e.g. \&quot;15-2\&quot;, where the document is the second attachment). | [optional] 
**clearinghouse_link** | **str** | URL to the clearinghouse.net page for the document. | [optional] 
**id** | **int** | The document&#39;s ID. Each document&#39;s ID is unique. | [optional] 
**document_status** | **str** | document_status | [optional] 

## Example

```python
from openapi_client.models.document import Document

# TODO update the JSON string below
json = "{}"
# create an instance of Document from a JSON string
document_instance = Document.from_json(json)
# print the JSON string representation of the object
print(Document.to_json())

# convert the object into a dict
document_dict = document_instance.to_dict()
# create an instance of Document from a dict
document_from_dict = Document.from_dict(document_dict)
```
[[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to README]](../README.md)


